[Autogenerated] we can't really discuss about manga report
stories without first looking into query method.
Query methods are the clarity of way toe add
functionality toe a spring depository.
And I think the best way to illustrate this process is by looking at an example.
We'll start with our airport document.
It has a couple of properties like I D flights per day name closed and location,
which is actually a sub document.
No, it is the correct annotations on the airport class.
Before we move on.
I want youto post this video and look closely at the property names.
In fact, know them on a piece of paper.
So in hostile report story toe, add more functionality to it.
We can add in a new method.
Let's take a look at this one.
Find by flights per day greater than, and we have a value.
Recreate his method signature, which he turns a list of airports.
And then we can just call this method and everything will work as expected.
At this point, you might be asking yourselves, Is this some sort of magic?
Well, not at all.
In fact,
Spring knows how to create a proxy and the correct
implementation based on the query method signatures.
There are a lot of conventions which are being used under the hood,
but Indian Spring manages to create our desired outcome.
In fact, let's detail on how we can create this queen methods,
and let's explore the conventions that govern them.
There are four things that you need to consider when declaring query methods.
You need to know the return type.
Is that method going to return a list is that nothing's going to
return a single document or maybe an optional.
Then we have the method prefix.
This is usually find by, but they're also other alternatives available.
After that, you can specify a property name,
and you can add filters on that property name.
And that's exactly what we did in the previous example.
If you want to build a query method to filter numeric properties,
we can build them like this.
We're turning a list of airports we have find by as the prefix.
We have flights per day, which is the property on which you wantto other fitter,
and then we have a couple of fitters between greater than greater
than equal or less than equal and of course,
we provide some values to customize our fitters.
I want to highlight the convention return type prefix find by in our case,
property name, flats per day,
the filters and then the values for those particular filters.
Let's move on to string properties.
Let's assume you wantto filter airports by their name.
We have free variants over here.
Find by name, like find by name, not now and find my name.
Now the first method returns.
All the airports where the name is similar toe are provided value.
The 2nd 1 returns all the airports where the name properties not know.
In the last one returns, all the airports were the name properties.
Know what?
If you want an exact match, wantto find all the airports by an exact name.
What, In this case, we can modify the signature.
And instead of returning a list of airports,
we can just return on airport or a non optional off type airport.
We also need to modify the method names and in this case,
we have find by name notice the absence of the feather well
filtering on the name property with an exact value,
and the exact value is the one that you passing into this method.
We also have quite a method for bullion fields.
Let's say we want to find all the airport that are closed or that are open well,
we can use the close property and we can create methods such as find,
buy clothes true or find my closed false.
We looked at how we can filter airports based on a single
property and using a single feather.
However,
we can complicate things we can chain together
multiple properties and multiple filters.
Let's see wantto filter all the airports that are closed and where the
flights per day is greater than a particular value.
We declare a singer you have to return type.
In this case,
the list of airports have the prefix find by and now we
have all the airports that are closed, so closed,
true and where flights per day greater than are given value.
Using the end operator became chain up Marty profit
Ear's on multiple properties, however, Is this approach good for all the cases?
No.
What about more complex queries?
Want our methods be like 200 characters long For those cases,
we can use the at query annotation and we can specify the exact custom
query that Mongo should use when executing our method.
This approach is a little bit more complex because you need to know how
to create queries using the Mongol Cree language.
But for complex queries, it's absolutely wonderful.
What if you want a filter?
All the airports by City City is a property on the location class.
On location is a sub document off airport.
While we can create a method and the name here is not relevant,
I just call it a former city and not is that we use the at
query annotation and in the at Korea notation passing among go
quickly language construct location, city equals question mark zero,
which matches for the first argument in our method in our case city.
Creating a query to find all the small airports is also pretty easy.
We use that queer irritation with their flights per days.
Our property, we add in the filter dollar lt,
which stands for less than or equals on the value 50.
I want to highlight that location and fights per day are the field
names as they are stored in the Mongol database.
There now the property names on our airport class.
When you're constructing queries this way, you lose type safety.
You need to know how the underlying data is stored.
Based on my experience,
I would encourage you to use the at Cory annotation only
situations where you cannot create the query methods using
the conventions discussed earlier.
Sure, they're great addition to the repository interface,
but they force you to know that our base specific details, so don't overuse them.